In this lesson we will continue our coding journey
and design table schema that will store all answers
for our application.
So an answer is created by a user to answer a particular question
So the table schema for the answer will be `id` id of the answer `user_id` to store the id of the user that create
the answer `question_id` to store the ID of the related question or the question that will be answered
`body` to store body or content of the answer.
An answer can also voted by anyone else.
and we will need to define `votes_count` in this case to records how many people are voting the answer
And lastly we also need to track when the answer created or modified so we will need created_at and updated_at
column.
So thats all we need in answers tabel.
All right
Let's go ahead and open our terminal and Firstly let's isolate our work into a new branch.
Now we can continue designing answer schema by generating new migration along with the new model that
will represent that table. Here we can say: php artisan make:model Answer
-m
all right let's open the create answers table
and here we already have increments id or auto increment id field and then timestamps which represents
created_at and updated_at column
So here let's have a question Id column in unsigned integer.
Let's also have user_id also in unsigned integer
and then we need to have body in text
and last we need to have votes_count in integer
and make it zero by default.
All right let's
save all these and go to terminal again and run our latest migration
OK
create answers table has been migrated successfully
Now let's define relationship method
in our models
Let's open question model
And here let's define relationship method to answer model
so let's call it answers in plural
and I'm sure you already know what should we do here.
Here we can return this has many answer
next
let's open the user model
and here we need to do the same thing as we did in the question model.
So let me copy this answers method
and paste here.
Now let's open the answer model
And here let's define inverse relationship methods.
public function
question in singular
And here we return this belongs to
question
an answer also created by user
so here we can say public function user in singular
and here we return this belongs to user
and because answer's body written in markdown syntax we also need to convert it into html using
parsedown library
we can simply copy from question model so let's copy this one
and paste here.
Now I'll switch to question model again
And here I realized that I already have answers column in the questions table and here I defined relationship
method in the same name and I will get trouble when accessing dynamic property.
So when I call question answers
count like this this will be OK.
But when I access question answers count or loop the answers
foreach question answers as answer like this
then it will be failed because laravel will firstly check
the existence of the column name in the
table. If it doesn't exist but it found relationship method
then it will be assume as a dynamic property.
But if it exists then eloquent will return the actual column's value.
So to fix this we have two options.
First option is to change the relationship method's name to something else and we don't need to touch
the existing column name in our database
and in all places in our application.
The second option we keep the relationship method's name as it was and rename the column name in the questions
table.
Also we need to make changes in some places such as in question factory and in our view.
You might tend to take the first option because it's very simple actually.
But here I will be choose the second option for some reasons.
First the name `answers` to represent relationship to answer model I
think is more descriptive instead of let's say question answers or list answers
or something else.
On the other hand answers column in questions table can be renamed to let's say answers count.
And I think it's still relevant to describe the purpose of the column.
The second we only to make little changes in some places.
Like I said we need to make change in question factory and in our view.  And the last I want to show you
other use case when working with database migration.
OK that's open
question factory
and change
these to `answers_count` and then go to resources
views questions
and then index.blade.php
find answers
So here let's select all answers and chance to `answers_count`
save all changes
and now we can create another migration.
Let's jump to our terminal
and here we can say: php artisan make migration rename answers in questions table
table equals questions
All right
let's open the migration file
and here in `up` method we can rename the column by saying table rename column
the column that will be renamed is `answers` and the new column name will be `answers_count`.
End here in `down` method we do the opposite
rename the `answers_count` to `answers` save that.
And now if we run the migration
we will find error
class doctrine dbal not found.
So unfortunately modifying a column requires us to install another dependency called `doctrine`
dbal
So if you open laravel guide
and go to migration
and then go to modifying columns
So here it says before renaming a column
be sure to add the `doctrine/dbal` dependency to your composer.json file.
So here
let's install that package by saying: composer require
doctrine/dbal
All right
after doctrine/dbal dependency installed we can rerun our migration and I'm sure we will not get
any error anymore.
OK rename answers in question table has been migrated successfully.
And now if we go to our browser
and reload the page everything should be fine.
Whoops I get error
OK
I need to change this
this `answers` to `answers_count`
switch the question model
and here I'll change this to answers
count save
reload the page.
The error should be gone.
OK great
So now that we have a new table to hold all the answers and we also have answer model to represent the
table in our application.
In the next lesson we are going to pre populate the answers table with some fake answers as we did in questions
table.
We'll also learn how to utilize eloquent event to increment the number of answers in the questions
table
every time a new answer is created.
All right
don't forget to save your work into git repo and I'll see you in the next lesson.